E6 :: Strings

Strings are one of the main data types in Python. 
As we have seen multiple times in previous examples, we have different ways to create strings: They can be created with single or double quotes, and we can create multi-line strings using triple quotes of either kind.

Like in other languages, we can use + to concatenate two strings together and also use different functions like .upper() and .lower() to transform a string into uppercase or lowercase.

Like with collictions, we can also use the len() function to get the length of a string, or "in" to check if a substring exists in a string. 

We can also use methods like .find() or .count() to find the position of a substring in a string or the number f repetitions, and the .replace() method to replace a substring with another one.

We can split a string into a list of words using the .split() method, for example using spaces or commas. We can also merge multiple values into a unique string using the .join() method.
And we can clean spaces at the beginning and end of a string using the .strip() method.

Like with lists, we can also use indices to either get specific characters or substrings, simply giving the first and last characters index. 
Also, we can also use negative indexes to count from the end of a string, of course.


Finally, strings can be formatted.
We have been doing it all this time with f-strings (f"text {variable} text").
This type of string is called an f-string an it's a way to format a string in Python where we simply put an f before the opening quotation mark and then use curly braces {} to indicate where the variables should be inserted, and python will automatically replace the variable with its value.

We can also use .format() method if we want to provide the formating more dinamically.
This uses the same sintax as f-strings where the variable to be replaced is indicated by a curly brace {} and then the variable name.
The benefit of this method is that it's more flexible and allows use to reuse one template for multiple values.